---
layout: post
title: Professor Will Merry at ETH Zürich passed away
date: 2022-09-20
description: 
categories: mathematician
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: true
---

I learned today that Professor [Will Merry](https://www2.math.ethz.ch/will-merry/index.html) has passed way, and it feels so sudden and unreal. 

I still remember clearly his last algebraic topology Ⅰ lecture, as if it were held yesterday -- He stopped by introducing the cup product in cohomology and bid us farewells, with great emotion in his voice. I thought it was because he did not get a tenure-track position to stay longer at ETH Zürich. I was so frustrated by the fact that he would not continue to be the instructor of the algebraic topology Ⅱ course next semester. 

Once the lecture was over, I rushed at him, thanked him for his amazing lectures, and asked for his autograph on my precious hardcover copy of "Topology and Geometry" by Bredon. I told him that I would definitely buy a copy of his lecture notes if he decides to publish them oneday.

"Good luck with your journey through mathematics, Will Merry", he wrote. For some reason, his handwriting was a bit distorted.

There is literally no way for me to believe that it was the last time that I saw him, even if he did not show up for the final exam. And then, three months flied; I kept hearing gossips about where his next station was. But it seems that he just disappeared all of a sudden, no updates, no messages replied, nothing. A few weeks later, his personal website  was locked and there was a merely ghost icon on the top of his homepage, that is it. I was really worried about him and sincerely wished him all the best, but never thought that he would be no longer with us. He was much more than a lecturer to me, and I owe him so much. 

Upon approval of his family, one day in the future I will certainly translate his lecture notes into Chinese in memory of him. 